.TH CQR 1 "December 2024" "cqr 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cqr \- Generate and decode QR codes like a captain!
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cqr
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cqr
(Captain QR) is a powerful command-line tool for generating and decoding QR codes.
It supports multiple content types including WiFi credentials, URLs, text, contacts,
emails, phone numbers, SMS, geographic locations, Bitcoin payments, calendar events,
and SEPA bank transfers.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Output file path (default: qrcode.png)
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-size " " \fIPIXELS\fR
Size of the QR code image in pixels (default: 512)
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: png, svg, terminal, base64 (default: png)
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-error\-correction " " \fILEVEL\fR
Error correction level: l, m, q, h (default: m)
.TP
.BR \-\-fg\-color " " \fICOLOR\fR
Foreground color in hex format (default: #000000)
.TP
.BR \-\-bg\-color " " \fICOLOR\fR
Background color in hex format (default: #FFFFFF)
.TP
.BR \-\-quiet\-zone " " \fIMODULES\fR
Quiet zone size in modules (default: 2)
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress all output except errors
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help information
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information
.SH COMMANDS
.SS wifi
Generate QR code for WiFi network.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-ssid " " \fINAME\fR
Network SSID (required)
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-password " " \fIPASS\fR
Network password
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-security " " \fITYPE\fR
Security type: wpa, wep, none (default: wpa)
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-hidden
Hidden network flag
.SS url
Generate QR code for a URL.
.TP
.I URL
The URL to encode (required)
.SS text
Generate QR code for plain text.
.TP
.I TEXT
The text to encode (required)
.SS email
Generate QR code for email.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-address " " \fIEMAIL\fR
Email address (required)
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-subject " " \fITEXT\fR
Email subject
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-body " " \fITEXT\fR
Email body
.SS phone
Generate QR code for phone number.
.TP
.I NUMBER
Phone number (required)
.SS sms
Generate QR code for SMS.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-number " " \fINUMBER\fR
Phone number (required)
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-message " " \fITEXT\fR
Message body
.SS vcard
Generate QR code for vCard contact.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-first\-name " " \fINAME\fR
First name (required)
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-last\-name " " \fINAME\fR
Last name (required)
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-phone " " \fINUMBER\fR
Phone number
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-email " " \fIEMAIL\fR
Email address
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-org " " \fINAME\fR
Organization/Company
.SS geo
Generate QR code for geographic location.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-lat " " \fILATITUDE\fR
Latitude (required)
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-lon " " \fILONGITUDE\fR
Longitude (required)
.SS bitcoin
Generate QR code for Bitcoin payment.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-address " " \fIADDRESS\fR
Bitcoin address (required)
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-amount " " \fIBTC\fR
Amount in BTC
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-label " " \fINAME\fR
Label/name
.TP
.BR \-M ", " \-\-message " " \fITEXT\fR
Message
.SS event
Generate QR code for calendar event.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-title " " \fITITLE\fR
Event title (required)
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-start " " \fIDATETIME\fR
Start date/time in ISO 8601 format (required)
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-end " " \fIDATETIME\fR
End date/time in ISO 8601 format (required)
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-location " " \fILOCATION\fR
Event location
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-description " " \fITEXT\fR
Event description
.SS sepa
Generate QR code for SEPA bank transfer.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-name " " \fINAME\fR
Beneficiary name (required)
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-iban " " \fIIBAN\fR
IBAN (required)
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-amount " " \fIEUR\fR
Amount in EUR (required)
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reference " " \fITEXT\fR
Payment reference
.SS decode
Decode QR code from an image file.
.TP
.I IMAGE
Path to image file (required)
.TP
.BR \-\-json
Output decoded data as JSON
.SS batch
Batch generate QR codes from CSV or JSON file.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input " " \fIFILE\fR
Input file (CSV or JSON)
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Output directory (default: ./qrcodes)
.SS completions
Generate shell completions.
.TP
.I SHELL
Shell to generate completions for: bash, zsh, fish, powershell, elvish
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate WiFi QR code:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cqr wifi -s "MyNetwork" -p "secret123"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate URL QR code as SVG:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cqr url "https://example.com" -o link.svg -F svg
.fi
.RE
.PP
Display QR code in terminal:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cqr text "Hello World" --format terminal
.fi
.RE
.PP
Decode a QR code:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cqr decode image.png
.fi
.RE
.PP
Batch generate from CSV:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cqr batch --input data.csv --output-dir ./codes/
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate shell completions:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cqr completions bash > ~/.local/share/bash-completion/completions/cqr
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the Captain QR contributors.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/yourusername/captain-qr/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 Captain QR contributors.
Licensed under the MIT License.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qrencode (1),
.BR zbarimg (1)
